I just sat down on this rock on a
substance of some sort. This was as I
was starting the newsletter and this
phrase of I have wisdom to share coming
through me over and over and over and I
was just watching this crazy
visualization of some kind of sitting
Buddha thing and that was for 3 hours.
It gave me the confidence that like okay
maybe I do have things to share.
>> What do you want to say to our mothers
right now? Do you want to take this
back?
>> My mom.
>> Do you want to take that back? You
started your newsletter 2019 and it now
has over a million subscribers.
>> 1.2 million.
>> 1.2.
>> Something that we've talked about a few
times is the best stuff comes from
actual experience.
>> People always say if you want to write,
read.
>> The source of the best advice is from
practitioners doing the thing for real.
At this point, most of my posts are
guest posts where somebody's sharing the
best thing they've learned in their
career.
>> What do you think you'd be doing right
now if you hadn't started that
newsletter?
>> On the struggle bus of startup life,
probably. And then probably after that
failed, I would have joined some company
as a PM.
>> Do you still like it?
>> I can't imagine doing something more
fulfilling and interesting. But the
visual I always have is the Indiana
Jones Boulder is chasing me constantly.
It's like this treadmill that you're on.
>> Tell me about a time you've been really
stressed in your business.
>> Here's something I've never shared.
Today, my guest is my brilliant,
incredible wife, Michelle Rial, who
turns the table and interviews me. I've
had so many people over the years want
me to be interviewed on this podcast,
and what could be more fun than doing
this with my wife. I share things during
this conversation that I've never shared
anywhere else, including some of the
hardest moments from this journey. I get
a lot more personal than I've ever been
on this podcast. Also, the day this
podcast comes out just happens to be my
wife's birthday. And she is also about
to publish her third book, a children's
book called Charts for Babies, which we
chat briefly about. Definitely pre-order
it. This was so fun and so special. I
hope you love it. Let's get into it.
Here's a puzzle for you. What do OpenAI,
Cursor, Perplexity, Versell, Platt, and
hundreds of other winning companies have
in common? The answer is they're all
powered by today's sponsor, work OS. If
you're building software for
enterprises, you've probably felt the
pain of integrating single signon, skim,
arbback, audit logs, and other features
required by big customers. Work OS turns
those deal blockers into drop-in APIs
with a modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SAS. Whether you're
a seedstage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, work OS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unlocking growth. They're
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack
support where they have real engineers
in there who answer your questions super
fast. Works allows you to build like the
best with delightful APIs, comprehensive
docs, and a smooth developer experience.
Go to workaw.com to make your app
enterprise ready today. Who says hiring
has to be fair? Every founder and hiring
manager I've been speaking with these
days is feeling the same pressure. Hire
the best people as fast as possible. But
recruiting is timeconuming. Alignment is
hard and competition for great talent
keeps getting tighter. That's why teams
like 11 Labs, Brex, Replet, Deal, and
5,000 other organizations use Metaview,
the AI company giving high performance
teams a real unfair advantage in hiring.
They give you a suite of AI agents that
behave like recruiting co-workers. They
find candidates for you based on your
exact criteria, take interview notes
automatically, gather insights across
your hiring process, and help you
identify the best candidates in your
pipeline. AI handles the recruiting toil
and gives you a real source of truth.
That means hours saved per hire and a
team focused on what matters most,
winning the right candidates. Don't let
your competitors outhire you. Metav
customers close roles 30% faster. Try
Metav today for free and get an extra
month of sourcing at metav.ai/lenny.
That's me.
Michelle Rial, thank you so much for
being here. Welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So, what are we doing here? Uh, people
constantly ask me to get interviewed
myself. People are like, why don't you
sit on the other side of the microphone
and get interviewed and I'm just like,
nah, I like interviewing. Uh, but you
have a book coming out
and we thought this would be a fun
opportunity to uh have you interview me.
And so, this is going to be your show.
I'm just going to be here. Ask me
whatever you want. I have no idea what
you're gonna ask me and we'll see where
it goes. And I'm gonna ask you some
questions about your book, too. So, I'll
turn that over to you, Michelle. What do
you got? What do you got for me?
>> Hello, Lenny.
>> Aka
babe.
Yeah. Um, yeah. So, you're you started
your newsletter 2019
and it now has over a million
subscribers.
>> 1.2 million.
>> 1.2. too.
>> Uh, and your podcast is uh you very
frequently one of the top 10. Is that
right?
>> Yep. It's like right around Yeah, it's
top 10 tech podcast.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. Hell yeah.
>> I love it. When I met you, I think you
were something called a product
engineer.
>> I was a software engineer. Let's see.
When you met me. No, I think I was a I
think I was still a software engineer.
Yeah.
>> I think you went from software engineer
to product engineer to product manager.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's right.
>> I'm wondering what do you what do you
think you'd be doing right now if you
hadn't started that newsletter?
>> If I like stayed in my job.
>> Yeah. If you hadn't and then that I mean
I'll get to another question about what
do you think is the one moment that led
you to your newsletter, but
>> you can answer either one.
>> So is the question after I left Airbnb
what would I be doing or is it like if I
didn't
>> just if you if you hadn't or if you had
gotten a different job do you think you
would have gotten a different job stayed
there? So when I left my job, uh I was
at Airbnb for seven years. Uh I was I
had like plan A, start a company again.
Plan B, join a startup as like their
first PM. Plan C join a big company as a
PM. Plan D advise companies, become a
consultant kind of person. Nowhere in
that plan was like do this crazy thing
that I do now. I had a lot of startup
ideas. As I was exploring the startup
ideas, as you remember, I was just like
tinkering and prototyping and building
stuff. And then on the side, I was
writing things that I learned and things
I wanted to share. And you were just
like,
why are you writing? Why do you there's
you can't make money on the internet
writing. You should be doing this thing
that you're good at. Startups and
building and tech and stuff like that.
And I'm just like, I don't know. It
seems like there's a pull here, so I'm
just going to keep doing this.
>> I don't know if I said things that
you're good at. I just said I just said
like as a person there's no money
putting writing on the internet I don't
make any money unless people buy my
book. Yeah. Plug
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So I guess to answer your question
I'd probably find another company to
start and I probably would have failed
considering most startups fail. So I'd
probably be in this like oh no is this
thing a thing I should be doing? I'd be
in a on the struggle bus of startup life
probably. And then probably after that
failed I would have joined some company
I guess as a PM. So then I guess going
back to that question of what what do
you think do you think there's a moment
or a collection of moments that led you
to go full in on the newsletter or even
start the newsletter, start the medium
post that led to the newsletter?
>> Yeah, it was definitely a collection of
moments. It's kind of this like little
journey that I just followed pull that
was starting to work and I'm just like,
huh, maybe there's something here. So a
few moments along that journey. One was
the first thing I wrote on the this is
like the first thing I wrote on the
internet did very well is this post on
what I learned at Airbnb like Medium
featured. It went all over the place.
Branches shared it with the whole
company. So proud of what I shared. So
that was a nice moment of like maybe I
have something to share. And then I
wrote a few more things on Medium at
this point and there was more of just
like this is working. People seem to
like it.
Then I had a conversation with this with
a friend Lee Jacobs who's a VC now
because I was telling him I don't know
what I'm I don't know why I'm doing
this. Why am I writing this is like not
a future I should be focusing on the
startup and he's just like you seem to
be enjoying it. People seem to be liking
it which is very rare that ven diagram
of things just like how often do you
enjoy something and people value it and
maybe there's a way to make money in in
the future. So his advice is just maybe
pursue that and double down on that and
maybe it'll go somewhere. So that was a
moment. Another maybe big moment was
nine months of doing the newsletter. So
I decided I'm going to move to Substack.
I'm gonna write every week I tweeted I'm
going to experiment with a newsletter,
weekly newsletter, see how it goes. Uh
and so I did that every week for nine
months. And I just remember this moment
nine months in where I was like, huh,
I've been doing this every week for 9
months, which means I could probably do
this for nine more months. There's this
uh Lindy effect. I don't know if you
know this, but there's this concept of a
thing something being lindy, which is uh
as long as it's been going for, it will
most likely last at least that long in
the future. So, I thought that okay, I
could do this for at least probably
another year. I have all these ideas and
things I want to write about. So, let me
just keep doing this. So, that's when I
decided to add the payw wall and start
charging and to see if I could make
money doing this thing. Also in parallel
as you know uh I was doing this based on
the assumption that my Airbnb stock was
going to be worth something and I could
take this time to explore and then co
hit and Airbnb might have was like over
ripb all over Twitter and I was like huh
maybe I need to get a job for real and
so I'm like I got to make money on this
thing. Let me try. So that's when I
started the payw wall. And so and and it
worked. That's like the other moment I
think I launched the payw wall and it
worked. You know, I made meaningful
dollars like a month in.
>> So, speaking of ven diagram, you said
I'm good at it and I and I people like
it
>> and people like it.
>> Oh, and I like doing it. You like doing
it.
>> That's a really good cuz I didn't
mention that.
>> Okay.
>> That's so that's so true that it's
right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I think eeky guy is like five
things, right? It's like a whole bunch
of stuff. Yeah. But that's a trigger a
point cuz it was just like people like
it and I'm good at it,
>> but without that I actually enjoy it.
>> I think you said I and I like doing it.
>> Okay, cool. Do you still like it?
>> I do in almost every way. Like I can't
imagine doing something more fulfilling
and interesting, which is basically um
my job is to write about things that are
interesting and share people's
interesting insights and experiences and
interview people and extract wisdom.
It's just like so interesting. It's my
own thing which makes it extra
interesting. But I think a lot about uh
this artist Finch wrote this blog post,
how to become an artist. And at the top
of his post, he's just like you pro, you
should not become a professional artist
most likely because yeah, because once
it's a thing you have to do, it changes
it. You have, you know, you have to do
it. So now I'm on this like this is the
downside, but I just want to preface
with saying this is incredible and I
can't imagine doing anything else that I
enjoy more. But uh having to write a
post or put out a post every single week
and a podcast episode every week, you
know, it's like this treadmill that
you're on. So you have to kind of get
used to that. That part is no fun. But
again, I can't think of anything better
that I could be doing. And and it kind
of goes up and down sometimes. Like I
love it. I'm so happy I get to write a
thing every single week. And then some
weeks I'm like, it'd be cool though to
do it this week. But that's part of this
life, you know, because otherwise you
can't do this. You can't you can't
survive in this way if you're not doing
something consistently and making it
awesome every week. So it's a part of
it. So the visual I always have is the
Indiana Jones uh boulder is chasing me
constantly
because you put out something like I
have a post come out. What's today?
We're recording on Wednesday. I had a
post come out yesterday and then I'm
it's like what's next week? All right,
that's done. all that work you put into
it over was coming out next week and
it's like every week. So the big
question I I don't have an answer to is
where this all goes long term because
someday whether it's a a 70 years old or
100 years old or 60 years old I don't
know like maybe I won't be able to do
this every single week. So I think about
where does this all go? I don't think
there's a answer to like substack writer
podcast life long term like what do you
do
>> like according to the Lindy right
>> there you go
>> so 2019 now it's seven more years
>> seven years since the news
>> seven years
>> so I can yeah good luck
>> seven more years you don't run out of
ideas
>> okay so we got seven years I can do that
>> yeah okay so speaking of the boulder you
don't seem like a stressed out person
and I don't see you as a stressed out
person only like potty training
sleep the toddler or baby sleep stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't see you as a stressed out
person. Uh do you think there's anything
behind that? Do you think that's just
you
>> and or are you just stressed and doesn't
you don't show it?
>> I think there's an element of I am more
stressed than I come across as and even
recognize with myself. Like I get these
headaches sometimes. I'm like what is
going on there? Is that stress or is
that something else? So, I think there's
a bit of I'm probably more stressed than
it looks like and that I even feel, but
I think I'm probably less stressed than
the average person. I think part of it
is genetics. And then part of it is I I
work on it. Like I just I've learned to
adjust the way I think to reduce stress
and to not take things seriously. But I
think I think honestly it's probably
like 70% genetics. I'm just like, it'll
be all right. It'll be all right. As you
know, something we argue about, it'll be
all right. That's some like raw chicken.
That'll be fine.
>> That's fine.
>> Uh so, okay. Do you have any tools or
any kind of like I know you've done
medit different types of meditation.
We've done breathing together. What do
you have a favorite? Do you
>> Oh, to like calm down and de-stress.
>> And you did you did a 10day silent
meditation right before you
>> ended up writing the post.
>> That's true. That was a big wisdom. Oh,
here's something I've never shared.
Okay. You asked about going back to the
moments that led me to this life. So, I
went on a a bachelor party trip with
some friends. This isn't where you think
it's going.
>> I hope not.
>> So, it was a trip to Joshua Tree with a
friend and uh there was psychedelics
involved on this trip. Uh and I just
remember so we went to Joshua Tree. I
just sat down on this rock on a
substance of some sort. Uh, and and this
was as I was starting the newsletter and
I just remember sitting there for
probably 3 hours in this one spot and I
was just having this deep breathing
happening and this like phrase of I have
wisdom to share
coming through me over and over and
over. And I was just watching this crazy
visualization of some kind of sitting
Buddha thing. And it's just like I have
wisdom to share. And that was for three
hours.
>> That made you write the post.
>> That made me feel like I can do this.
Like it gave me the confidence that
like, okay, maybe I do have things to
share. Yeah. That was a really powerful
moment just to give give me confidence
that there's something inside me that's
like, oh yeah, maybe I I could do this
thing. So that was a big moment.
>> What do you want to say? What do you
want to say to our mothers right now? Do
you want to take this back?
>> My mom want to take that back?
>> No. No. Do you want to crop it out?
>> This is um Okay, Mom. I did I did I did
I did some stuff.
>> It's okay.
>> We Okay, so
>> it's time to time to share.
>> And then Yeah. You've done medit You did
10day meditation. You did a specific
type of meditation that that seemed to
me to to affect you in like physical
ways.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you told me once about a
happiness course you took.
>> Yeah. That was actually pretty
transformative. I took this online
course at University of Pennsylvania
about uh the psychology of happiness and
it was basically all the science of what
makes you happier and how to be happier
and that really had a big impact on me
because it showed you you can increase
your baseline level of happiness by
doing a few things and one of the things
is just like thinking more positively
like thinking more optimistically.
There's also like gratitude stuff that I
didn't find as useful, but there's just
something about you can everyone's got
this baseline. That was actually a big
learning from that course is everyone's
just kind of this baseline level of
happiness and you could be like at 100,
you could be at zero probably more most
people in between somewhere and like
something amazing happens, you go way
way up in happiness and then you come
back to that baseline. Something
terrible happens, you go back to that
baseline and the main thing you can do
is work on improving that baseline so
that you come back to a higher place. So
that's what a lot of the work is and
what you learn in that class. And one of
the things is just be optimistic. Just
kind of have a positive outlook and
don't let your mind kind of spiral into
these like it's going to be terrible. So
it was a lot of just like think more
positively. And I feel like my baseline
of level of happiness has gone up and I
think that yeah
>> I think you told me exercise too like
used to run.
>> Yes, that was a really good insight. So
exercise they the science this was like
I don't know 15 years ago. I'm guessing
there's new research. But the
interesting thing there is uh exercise
doesn't make you happier, but it brings
you out of the negative. So you're
negative one without exercise and
exercise brings you to zero so that
you're not depressed. Basically,
>> speaking of stress.
>> Okay, then I have a question for you.
>> Oh, okay. Let's do this. Let's do this.
Uh because
I know on your podcast you have a
lightning round.
>> Okay.
>> Um we're going to do a thunder round.
>> Is that extra fast or what does that
mean?
>> No, it's sound. your one thing that I
think stresses you out the most at times
is uh your misophonia which is you want
to explain what it is?
>> Yeah, it's like
it's funny to talk about it but it's
this it's like this disorder. It's like
a real thing in the brain where I get
bothered by certain sounds and so I get
very bothered by people eating with
>> Okay. Thunder round is going to be top
five worst sounds or you can rank these
sounds.
>> Okay. Okay. You're going to give me the
five
>> like like best best sound to worst
sound.
>> Okay.
>> Right. So like 10 is worst.
>> Okay. What are
>> 10 is best? I don't know.
>> What are the best sounds?
>> Okay. What's Okay. Okay. Let's say
chewing. Chewing one to 10.
>> Chewing like with mouth open. Just like
with the worst. Yeah,
>> I hate it. Uh 10 is the worst.
>> 10 is the worst.
>> It's, you know, it's probably it's in
Yeah, it's 10. N or 10
>> or like like nails on a chalkboard.
What's that?
>> That's like less bad for me,
>> right? What's the number?
>> Like if it's someone's sitting right
next to me just like chomping away.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's so awkward to ask anyone to
stop. I hate doing that. It's like so
they're like, "Shut up."
>> Sweet. You're sweet.
>> But it's just like what?
>> Yeah.
>> I'm just sitting here eating. Leave me
alone.
>> Yeah. That's how I feel whenever I do by
accident near you.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh okay. So, nails on a chalkboard.
What's
>> That's like six. I don't know. Five.
>> What about um
>> I don't mind this.
>> What about like a baby crying or your
What's a baby crying versus your baby
crying?
>> Baby crying like uh So, 10 is the worst.
>> Yeah.
>> So, like how loud? Like very loud.
>> Like in in newborn phase like like
didn't know what to do like
>> Oh, yeah. That was really like when when
Jude was born.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, yeah. That's pretty hard.
Okay. Uh like eight.
>> Okay. Okay. What about like um when Jude
says papa?
>> Yeah. One one is the best. Yeah. And
>> is there any other sound you
>> drew laughing?
>> Okay.
>> What about like bad another bad sound?
>> I don't know.
>> Okay. You can you can ask me now if you
want.
>> Okay.
>> If you're getting
>> No, no, no. I like there's not that many
bad sounds. It's just like very specific
bad sounds that I'm just like
>> basketball,
>> you know? If there's just like if I'm
trying to come like be calm and there's
like a bunch of commotion like Okay. Uh
like a gas, you know, blower.
>> Oh, when I'm trying to work,
>> that's I think a notorious one for
people.
>> What is that? A 10.
>> It's like if it's super loud and right
in my face, I would say let's say a
seven.
>> Okay,
>> not so bad.
>> You can ask your question now if you
want or I have more for you.
>> I'm going to ask you a question. So, uh
so you make these incredible genius
funny charts. There's one example on
this book. So you have this first book
here called Am I Overthinking This which
a lot of people identify with has sold
many copies. Uh so you're you create all
these charts that try to synthesize
things in life, things people
experience, things people feel. A lot of
these charts get shared on socials by
people that steal your charts and just
pretend like they made this or just
found it and they cut out your
attribution.
They make pillows and mugs and there's
like all these websites that sell all
these charts you've made just like on
swag that you get no credit for. I know
it's bothered you a lot over the years.
What makes your charts so sharable so
widely? How why they go so viral so
often?
>> By the way, I stopped looking at that
cuz it doesn't help me. Anyway, um
>> that's good. I think that's for the
best.
>> Well, I think what's the good
>> I think as as your thing has gotten more
successful, it's like not as important
to me. I do think it's interesting that
they are often like detached from me
which is I don't know why but um
>> yeah people want to get credit
>> when they do um and it's I I think I can
figure out some of them it's clear when
I make it whether it's like I make it
and then I let it sit and then some
other some like moment happens or I'm
like oh no this is what it needs and
then I'm like now it's now I can feel
that it's really good and usually it's
like it's something that makes me laugh
or cackle even though I made it. It's
like like it's like oh I've already seen
this in my own brain and it's still
funny to me or makes me kind of like
tear up then I feel like okay I think
people are going to like this. I am
often wrong. And sometimes too like
there are things there's something from
that book that I didn't share at all but
someone took a photo of it. That's how
it went viral is like just a photo of a
page of a book that people loved.
>> Like it wasn't even like a digital high
quality picture. It's just like some
random photo. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Which is interesting as well. And
also people's attention spans. Uh
sometimes there are just what I what I
like to make is things that are really
simple. Um and quick and show you
something you haven't thought of before.
And I think that if it's really easy to
digest, people's attention spans are
short these days. And if it makes them
feel something is another thing. And
it's also nice to make something that's
that isn't a lot of like physical labor.
Um because some things you can make and
it can take you forever to draw out
because my brain does work in this like
overthinking kind of way of like this
but then oh this then this. People like
it when it's really simple.
>> Yeah. I I love your point about like the
way you know a chart is done is
intrinsically you feeling like this is
hilarious. This is makes you laugh.
Makes you feel something. And that's
similar to the way I think about my
newsletter post. And yeah, more more the
newsletter than the podcast is it just
to me it feels like this is like really
interesting and really good. It's very
like not waiting for other people to
give you, you know, approval or
feedback. It's like I feel this is good.
And I think that's really interesting
that that's similar to the way I
approach my stuff. I find that when you
work on your charts, uh, you're like you
think so many levels deep. They're like
they're like so they're like too clever
sometimes and I have to like pull
because to your point people have a
short attention span sometimes they're
like too clever and I have to like okay
this is too many layers you have to
understand and I have to like that's a
little much. You have to like simplify
it a little bit.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. You're my editor sometimes.
>> I try but you're like no you're like I
don't care. I don't I don't care about
your feedback.
>> You you're usually probably right.
>> Yeah. Okay. Let me ask you one more
question and then we could switch it
around again. How do you come up with
your ideas for your charts? You have so
many such variety. You had an adult
book. You had a children's now. You have
a children's book. Uh you're working on
like charts for parents. You have all
this other stuff going on. Where do your
ideas come from, Michelle?
>> The ideas come from just living life and
noticing noticing a lot of things. And
then also kind of um observing
a lot. I I know that I've been really
prolific when I've been meditating. And
in meditation, you learn to kind of
observe your own thinking. And if you're
anxious about something like, "Oh, I'm
that's funny that I was anxious about
that random thing that I I've never
thought about it that way before." And
which is interesting because it is kind
of like overthinking every moment, which
it meditation shouldn't be teaching you
to do, but that's what happens. But I
I've noticed if I focus too much on my
work, I stop living life and then I stop
having ideas. And it's a little
different with children's books, which
is what I'm working on right now because
it's not like relatable things a little
bit, but it's um more children's
concepts, but the adult stuff has to be
just through living life and
>> noticing. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Noticing
>> makes me think about I think David Cedar
had this story where he's just has to
say yes to everything he's invited to
just cuz he needs to have experiences
because he just has to keep pumping out
stories. So he's just like, "Sure, let's
go to Vegas right now. Let's do it." So
I feel like that's a lot of the work
here is just to live real life. You
can't just kind of sit there and come up
with ideas. You have to try stuff and do
crazy things.
>> Yeah. So the first So my first
children's book, which is is out soon.
Um that one actually came out of kind of
observing parenthood and early new
parenthood moments. That's how I
started. I started at the beginning of
the notebook writing kind of like trying
to make charts for new parents, but we'd
been reading so many kids books together
that I just had this like D like rhythm
in my head of children's books. And so
what it I just turned to the back of the
notebook and started writing more like
children's book rhymes involving
>> the back of a notebook because you're
working on a different book and you're
not in this notebook. Oh, this is
notebook to put my questions in for you.
Yeah. And so I started off in the front.
Um I'm not going to show you.
>> So you start in the front on a different
idea.
>> I just started off in the front charts
for New Parents and then I was like got,
you know, a few in, you know, like a
good amount in and then I was just in
the park right and then I kind of was
just like, "Yeah, but I I have always
wanted to do these charts for kids or
for babies." And I just kept wanting to
write that. So I started in the back and
then I filled it up that way.
>> I love that. This is another example of
just following pull and not just doing
the thing that you're doing. Just like,
huh, this is pulling me and I'm going to
try it and just see where it goes. Look
at this. What a call back. Okay, back to
you, Michelle.
>> Back to you.
>> Back to you. Back to you. Through me.
Through you.
>> Yeah, exactly. Okay. Okay. So, um, tell
me about I I do want to ask you this
question inspired by a friend who like
reverse nicknames you and says like
Leonard. Is your name full name Leonard?
Where's Lenny come from?
>> And by the way, reverse nickname meaning
they give you a nickname without you
like asking them to.
>> Well, there's people who give you a
nickname without you asking. That's Yes.
>> He gives you the full name.
>> Oh, he makes it long.
>> Yeah, it's not a thing. I'm just making
it up.
>> Okay, I like that. Okay. So the question
is my where my real name uh so when I
moved to the US from the Ukraine which
we recently chatted about on a podcast
with Boris which turned out to be a big
big news
>> Odessa
>> people Odessa. Yeah. My parents named me
Leonid was my real official first name
in the US but they called me Lenny.
Everyone called me Lenny. And so when we
became citizens you could change your
name. And so my parents just changed it
to Lenny. So it's my real name.
>> It's just Lenny. No. No Leonard. Oh,
Leo. Yeah.
>> Oh, yeah. Leonardo.
>> Just Lenny.
>> Just Lenny. Yeah.
>> I love it.
>> And Leonid as in it's it's a Russian
name or there's also the like star
constellation.
>> Oh, the Leonid. I don't know. I think
they just asked their friends just like
what is my Russian name is Luna? And so
I think they just like what's the
English version of that? And I'm
guessing some of their friends are just
like Leonid. I don't know if they named
it after anything specific.
>> Can I share any of your nicknames? I'm
going to assume no. What are my
nicknames? Okay, go for it.
>> Uh,
>> I don't know who they are.
>> Like, lick.
>> Okay, sure.
>> I could share that.
>> Sure.
>> Do you like it?
>> Yeah. Do
>> people call you that?
>> Well, it's like my family calls me that.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. It's like a Russ Yeah, it's like a
Russian little nickname. Grunchic.
>> Yeah. And you Okay. But like strangers,
can they call you that?
>> Uh, no. Don't call me that.
>> Okay. And speaking of strangers, how do
you feel when people approach you and
and is it weird at all? like like oh
yeah like like does it remind you how
big your newsletter has gotten or like
do you like it?
>> Do you like certain ways of approaching
it?
>> Yeah. So I guess what you're uh speaking
to is when I walk around the Bay Area in
particular people often recognized me
which is extremely weird and started
with the podcast once like interestingly
I had the newsletter for four years.
>> Yeah. You got to be like you got to be
stealth.
>> Yeah. like my face was tiny and some
Twitter profile, but I once I started
the podcast, people just Yeah, it just
it was like very weird the first time it
started happening and then and now it
happens quite a lot. I like it a lot.
It's very cool. I really appreciate it.
It makes me feel really nice. I'm not
bothered by it in any way. Uh it always
is very flattering and people are always
so nice and just I have endless nice
things to say. I've never had a bad
experience someone just trying to say hi
to me. So, please say hi.
>> What? Okay, that's great.
>> And I often ask people what's their
favorite podcast episode or your
favorite newsletter because I'm just
curious. I I always ask just like your
founder, your product person, like
what's your story? Yeah, it's really
>> What about if you're in the middle of if
you're like at a coffee shop and you
have headphones on and somebody says
like, "Hey." Or if you're like playing
with your kid, what do you think?
>> I think you're projecting, right,
>> about what you wouldn't want.
>> Girl, yeah,
>> people don't do that. I think people
have been generally very conscious. You
know, there could be a moment of just
like we're getting somewhere and I can't
talk for too long and I don't want to be
rude
>> or you're like in a focus. Yeah. But but
then
>> Yeah,
>> it hasn't been a problem yet. Uh almost
like 99% of people have been very
considerate.
>> Yeah.
>> And I don't want people to feel like
they can't just talk to me and say,
>> "Yeah, that's cool."
>> Yeah. They're always so cool.
>> I like that. Yeah.
>> Is there any like instance of
delightful? like maybe the first time
this happened.
Uh we live in Marin and I was walking
through Sanelmo with you as you remember
and there's this guy in a little red car
driving by with his son. He's driving by
and we're on the sidewalk and then he
just yells, "Lenny, I love your podcast.
God," and this wasn't even in San
Francisco. It was in San and Selmo and
it was uh shocked. And then he just kept
he like held up traffic just to say
hello. I'm like, "Oh my god."
>> Yeah, I wouldn't do that.
>> Yeah, probably wouldn't do that. And
then I met him later. He runs a
hamburger club in Marin. He's very cool.
Cuz I saw him again at another coffee
shop. So that was quite delightful.
>> I love that. Uh okay, you just said
something. Okay, people coming up to
you. Um Okay, you're going to have to
cut this. See, no, we're not going to
cut it because this is what I go
through, too, as a podcast interviewer.
>> I thought of something I lost there.
>> This is what I'm constantly dealing
with. That is a challenge of the
interviewer.
>> And I think it's fun for people to see
cuz you're like, "Okay, I have to think
about what's I'm going to say next." And
then you're like, they're stop and then
you're like, "Oh [__] what was it going
to be?" So that's why on when I do the
podcast, I'm secretly writing notes to
myself constantly.
>> So, okay,
>> check your notes.
>> Yeah. Well, okay. I closed my Okay, I
should have written it down. Let's talk
about like thinking back to what what
kind of um hints that you would start
this newsletter or like things that you
worked on when you were younger that are
like a little or like a mildly adjacent
or like you know cuz you had some like
some websites you had atheist spot you
had like you had some tutorials
>> tutorials that's one
>> so the question is like what are the
things I did earlier that helped me with
the work you or yeah just cuz just
looking back like anything that that is
kind of like makes it obvious that you
would have started this newsletter or
like a little more
>> I don't think there's anything that
would have pointed me or anybody to this
being the thing that I do now. It's
completely unexpected personally and I
don't think anyone saw coming. Uh I had
never written anything online before I
started writing. I was always not like
hey look at me I've got all the answers
and I have all this wisdom to share. I
was always like I'm an introvert. I'd
like to kind of stay behind the scenes.
So, it was a it's a very unexpected path
for me. And part of the reason I think I
was able to do it is uh the newsletter
started during co so I could just sit
there and type and put stuff out online.
I didn't have to go anywhere and like
tell everyone. I could stay like in my
little hole. But just to uh follow
through on these things you pointed out
that I did earlier cuz uh I don't think
I've ever talked about these things. I
had all these different side projects
before uh like through college I guess.
Yeah. through college. I was like a very
uh big atheist and I'm still an atheist,
Jewish atheist, which is many Jews, but
I was like very into it before and now
I'm like, "Okay, I don't care. Whatever.
Believe what you want to believe." Uh,
so I used to run a website called the
atheistpot.com,
which was Reddit for atheistnews,
which is not a, you know, Reddit is that
it's fine. I don't, you don't need it.
But I went to like there's like
conventions. We went to atheist
conventions.
Uh, so I did that and the funny thing is
that was the during AdWords when Google
Adwords was a way to monetize your site
and so all the ads on the site because
most of the articles were about religion
were all these religious dating sites.
So it's like Christian Mingle and like
all these funny dating sites that didn't
make sense for the audience. So I always
thought that was funny. And then uh I
worked with a friend on this other
project called Tutorials which was so
ahead of its time. The idea was
tutorials, tutorials for you by you.
>> Nice.
>> And so it's people contributing things
they've learned and writing a how-to,
like how to make eggs, how to take a
quick shower, and it was all these
>> That's like Tik Tok, right?
>> It's like Tik Tok. It was before
Wikipedia, I think.
>> I know. Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's like YouTube. It's like
>> that's like what I watch Tik Tok for is
like watching people make
>> Yeah. And parenting advice and
>> things to be afraid of.
>> Yeah. And dance videos. Yeah.
>> So it was
>> That's what your thing was or that's
what Tik Tok is?
>> That's what Tik Tok is, right? Yeah. So,
yeah, I was really proud of that.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> it sounds it sounds like it was ahead of
time. Local mine was ahead of its time.
>> And Local Mine. So, that was my startup.
We sold it to Airbnb. That's how I got
there. Uh, Local Mine, amazing idea and
not something anyone needs really.
>> Uh,
>> I still need it.
>> Like, you need it once in a while. So
just to briefly explain what that is, uh
it was an app that sat on top of
Foursquare and Gala when that was very
cool and allowed you to ask questions of
people checked in anywhere in the world.
So if you're like is there a long line
at the mill which is near here? Should I
go? Is there a long line? What's like
the special?
>> You just use that basically the
>> Yeah, we use the Google does it like is
it busy? Yeah. Like you know all these
other ways that you could solve this
problem. It was very cool. Uh it was
amazing. Nobody needs it really.
>> If there's still things you want to ask
>> you need like once in a while. you like
once a quarter and it's holy [__] that's
so good
>> but you know you can't make a business
out of that so
>> I'm glad that we we exited
>> today's episode is brought to you by DX
the developer intelligence platform
designed by leading researchers to
thrive in the AI era organizations need
to adapt quickly but many organization
leaders struggle to answer pressing
questions like which tools are working
how are they being used what's actually
driving value provides the data and
insights that leaders need to navigate
this shift. With DX, companies like
Dropbox, Booking.com, Adion, and
Intercom. Get a deep understanding of
how AI is providing value to their
developers and what impact AI is having
on engineering productivity. To learn
more, visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
>> Okay. So, you were mentioning the the
atheist bot with bunch of religious
dating sites. Yeah.
>> Reminded me that you were my first
online date ever on a
>> snatched
>> platform called How about we and I
remember that I mean you had had other
dates. Um
>> where's this going
>> anyway? No, but I remember you were like
um had see I think you had a thing for
designers.
>> Yeah.
>> And I wonder if you regret that
preference
>> like designer artist sort of like
>> No, not at all.
>> stereotype. No. Like I'm not like like
you're pretty neat.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's true. You're kind of
chaotic. Yeah. Which is We could talk
about your process, but it's like it's a
messy process. It's true. You know, we
have a good yin-yang.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I'm just
>> Yeah. You're unstressed, unbothered. I'm
bothered.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm just things everywhere.
>> We got cleaners. They help things out.
>> Yeah. It's true.
>> You know.
>> Oh, yeah. Privilege.
>> It's worth it.
>> Okay. So, you're okay with designers
still? Good. Uh, and then
>> as a wipe.
>> Yeah. Right. Right.
>> Highly recommend.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Great. So, yeah, I was going to ask like
do you have any tips for because it's
like it's, you know, there's there's
something you said recently which is
like you don't have any co-workers. I
was like, I'm your cooworker. We work at
home.
>> Um, but yeah. Do you feel do you ever
feel like lonely not because you were
always really social? And then this goes
into too like even before you were niche
famous or whatever we want to call it.
>> Sorry. people are always coming up to
you on the street like you know from
Airbnb from Airbnb because you're
organizing things and
>> um do you feel like you miss office
culture?
>> I have people ask me that over the years
and I've always like no it's amazing I
don't need that like I just doing my own
thing and I don't need people around but
I've kind of started to feel that a
little bit of just like huh there's no
one like I just sit at home all day and
just like
>> our dog likes to be right next to you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. He's sweet.
>> Yeah. Uh, so I do feel like I do miss it
now. It's not like a huge problem, but
it's just like, you know, it' be cool to
just jam with someone on stuff and I
have a team and I have you and Twitter.
>> Well, you like to go to coffee shops.
>> I like to go to Yeah.
>> What do you What do you get?
>> But it's like bowling alone kind of. I
don't know. It's like, is that a good
metaphor? Like
>> And you have your head You put your
headphones on. Yeah.
>> And you're focused. It's like
>> Yeah. So it would be fun. Like I have an
awesome team and we jam on stuff, but
it's not like like I think there's a I
do miss having someone next to me that
I'm just working with on the same thing.
But I also am trying very hard to never
have full-time employees. I'm trying to
keep things really simple because it's
so easy to build this thing into like
this whole thing that's complicated that
I'm like, what have I done? One of the
challenges with this life is you can
create a job for yourself that you hate
by doing things that people want you to
do or by following opportunities that
feel big and then you're like I hate
this. So I'm trying to be really careful
about what I commit to and do. Coming
back to your question, I do miss it
some. Yeah. It's like a new thing I've
realized that I miss is being around
other people like working on the same
thing.
>> Yeah. So speaking of other people like
coming up to you and being around other
people, it I think it's become harder
for you now that now that people you
don't know come up to you because I
think you actually have a little bit of
face blindness.
>> Absolutely.
>> So people who people who do know you
>> come up to you and you're like and
you're like waiting to know if if they
just listen to your podcast or if you
>> like I know if I know that like
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. This is a big problem for me. It's
like
>> it's like another brain disorder I guess
where I just don't remember people's
names. I'm so bad at it. So, I just like
I know you. Who are you? It's like
people texting you from a new number.
I'm like, who is this?
>> Yeah. Sometimes I feel like the Devil
Wears Prada um assistant where I'm like,
"That's Emily. You worked with her on
Airbnb or that's
>> You don't do that. You need to do that."
>> I I do it sometimes.
>> You do that sometimes. Okay.
>> Yeah. So bad at that. Okay. So, if you
come up to me and you say hello and I
don't recognize you, please. Sorry. I'm
really bad at it. And yeah, it's like
gotten worse because now I know more
people through the podcast and
newsletter and like
>> Right. And you just know a lot of
people.
>> Yeah. It's like faces.
>> You're very kind with people.
>> I try. I try.
>> Try.
>> Okay. So, going back to the like
unbothered
vibe that you have. Tell me about a time
you've been really stressed in your
business and then a time you've been
really stressed in your personal life.
>> Okay. So, on the business side, uh, so I
have this product pass. So, as a
subscriber to my newsletter, you get 23
incredible products and I used to read
them all. Linear mob and lovable replet
gamma. I stopped doing this because
there's too many now. I had the end of
my podcast. I just read through them all
and now I can't do it anymore. There's
too many. I had a launch about a year
ago. It's about a year actually where I
launched you get a free year of cursor
and lovable and bolt and replet and
vzero. I think that's five. And so, uh,
that was way too good an offer. People
came for it, bad people. So, I just had
so many fraudsters, mostly in China, it
turned out, just like all these fraud
rings in China, trying to find ways to
steal all my all these free goodies. So,
they set up all these crazy attacks. And
I had to work with Stripe and Substack
to just like shut them down. and they
just found all these little exploits in
our API that we built and like this. So,
it's like such a nightmare because we're
just like waking up to like every night
it was like hard to sleep and I have
this engineer uh Estee who's so
incredible and he likes didn't sleep for
a week stopping filling all these holes
because there's a lot of lot of smart
clever bad guys out there. So, that was
extremely stressful. Like it could
trickle down into the whole thing
falling apart if everyone's like, "Oh my
god, can't trust Lenny anymore."
So, as you remember, it was very
stressful. I didn't sleep too well and
it was like very scary and there's all
these they just kept popping up and
there's all these like rings and it went
viral in China, too. That's like in in
the student network. They just holy
[__] you get a year free of cursor and
lovable and replet and bolt and vzero
and uh so it was very stressful to
answer your question on the personal
side. Okay, so when our baby was born,
the birth was very complicated. Uh, you
had to get a C-section
because the induction wasn't getting it
there because Yeah, it was
>> complicated.
>> Complicated.
>> Normally, I feel like I would tell the
story, but
>> you weren't awake.
>> But this is also like a when Harry met
Sally, but it's like how the the
pregnant person almost died, you know.
But okay, but it's from your perspective
because I didn't get to experience it,
>> right?
>> So,
>> yeah. So what happened is we had to you
had to do a cacaian. They gave you an
And so the idea is they bring you into
the operating room. They do the
anesthetic,
the epidural or whatever it's called,
and then they let the husband, the
partner in. And so I was waiting in the
hall waiting for them to do the
anesthetic,
>> your scrubs.
>> They gave me a whole bunny suit. Yeah.
Super sterile. Just standing there in
this bunny suit thing. And the idea is
they do the anesthetic and I can come in
and then watch the birth and all that
stuff and 5 10 minutes in I just hear
beep and the doctor runs out, scrubs her
hands, runs back in and then all the two
other people run from another room
down the hall into the room. They're
like, uhoh.
Uh and
>> you were scared. You were
>> I was scared.
>> I was very scared because I had no idea
what was going on. That didn't sound
good.
>> Nobody told you anything.
>> Nobody was telling me anything. I was
supposed to be in there. No one's coming
out like here's what's happening
>> and it was like 10 minutes of just
nothing.
>> Yeah. And you were supposed to be in
there after like a minute.
>> Yeah. It's going to be quick. Yeah.
Yeah. I was supposed to be like, "Come
on in. We're going to do this, you know,
and like you're awake during it, you
know, in real life." So, I just remember
pacing down the hall using coming back
to the lessons I've learned just like
it's gonna be okay. It's going to be
okay. That's what I remember saying to
myself, just kind of trust that they
know what they're doing. You know, we're
in a hospital. There's a lot of doctors
around.
And and then eventually they came back
and they just said that the epidural
went the wrong direction. And so instead
of going down, it went up your body and
so was stopped was stopping your heart
and lungs and they had to intubate you
and do an emergency intubation and get
the baby out and then took like an hour
for you to come back. They were they
were going to put you in ICU to help you
come back. So that was very scary cuz
you weren't there. I didn't know what's
going on.
>> And you got to hold You got to hold the
baby for like an hour.
>> Yeah.
>> Without So that's why he's like a he's
like
only papa. He's a he's another person
that that prefers you.
>> Who's the other person?
>> Our dog.
>> You know, cuz you're now for now. Cuz
you're you know, you're a sweet sweet
guy. But yeah, it's uh
>> Yeah, that was really scary.
>> Stressful.
thought it was going to be okay.
>> Yeah, that was that was the thing that
helped. But it was like very scary cuz
it's just like life could be completely
different now. Like something like you
know like you could have like the guy
the anesthesiologist said it was a one
in 50,000 chance and it's like the worst
scenario that is very rare and very
dangerous. And so it was extremely scary
and and luckily he did a great job and
everyone's like he killed it. He did
like he he knew exactly what to do. He
handled it really well.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And I don't have any memory. You
remember this?
>> It numbed my
>> just came back.
>> Numbed my lungs and I was like, I can't
breathe. And then and then I numbed my
spinal
brain stem and then I passed out.
>> How about that?
>> How about that? I didn't had to get to
have any
>> Yeah. How does it Looking back? Are you
Are you
>> We don't have to talk about it.
>> Okay.
>> Looking No. Yeah. It's uh that that's
it's that's what you said, but it's
interesting to like not have an
experience around it. And the experience
was like the live experience is more.
>> Yeah. It's probably the scariest moment
of my life.
>> Yeah. And I didn't I wasn't I didn't
know anything about it because they put
me under general anesthesia and then I
was all loopy and then I didn't even
know really what and then later I read
the report like months later I read it.
I actually had someone else read it who
was in the field and she's like it was
your cousin Lois and she like moved her
thick glasses like wow.
>> Yeah, she was like a nurse back then.
Yeah.
>> Anyway, stressful moment. Uh yeah, so
you used your tools.
>> Yeah, I used my tools otherwise. You
know, that's a good point cuz it could
have been like spiral like oh my god.
>> And our d we had a doula but she had
left
>> the doula was going to be there but for
Cesareian she's like I can't be here.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Okay, I want to ask you a
question, but unless you have something
we want to follow up,
>> okay, so you come up with these
incredible charts. They're just like,
you know, it's like the kind of charts
you see on the internet that are like,
"Oh my god, that's so genius." And
watching you come up with it is so wild
cuz you just you're just like it pops
out of nowhere and then there's like a
little bit of iteration and like that's
it. What's the process for you coming up
with a chart and what's like the
environment that you need to create your
best work? Feel like coffee is a big
part of it.
>> Coffee is like it's like not too much.
There there's one I have that it's like
I mean it has to be the perfect amount
of coffee. So I actually usually get a
single shot.
>> Do you know about a the bomber peak by
the way? Quick tangent.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So there's a concept called the
bomber peak.
>> Yeah.
>> From XKCD which is just the right amount
of alcohol where you're the most
insightful and creative and then it
falls down which is like I don't know. I
forget why this is Steve Bomber related
but so the bomber people.
>> I have one like that about coffee but
it's not. It's made out of a little
coffee straw and it's like
>> we're going to show this on YouTube if
you're watching this so you can see the
chart. It's like I'm a genius and then
I'm having a panic attack. And so that's
me is is like is like yeah I'll get to
this point where I feel like I mean
coffee is a drug, right? So if I have
too much it is like a drug and I'm I
feel like a genius and I'm like having
all these ideas but then I think it's
it's too like I don't know if this was a
real image but there was an image of
spiderw webs and it's like this is a
spiderweb that ingested some this I
don't
>> LSD and stuff.
>> Oh yeah. And this is a that had spider
that had coffee. And it's like instead
of a regular web, it's like a web that
goes like this. Like it's like just
erratic and tangential. And I have some
of some really good some really good
like seeds of ideas in those moments.
Then I have to go like scream into a
pillow or something.
>> Well, is that when you have too much
coffee or
>> when I have too much coffee? But but if
there's a point like right before that.
>> So single shot latte.
>> Single shot is what I get. Single shot
latte at least an hour. Sometimes it's
good to have a like a somewhere I have
to be to a time limit and then I'm kind
of like I I feel like a machine
uh and it's like trying really hard to
get somewhere. And then the other thing
is just like a lot of it is writing
something down as I'm out in the world
like writing and then putting it trying
to put it on paper in a way that
visualizes it because I'm not strong at
drawing. So, and yeah, when I was a kid,
my dad did a lot of math with me and a
lot of like, you know, fractals and
visualization and patterns and so I sort
of think that way um like mathematically
kind of and um yeah, so it helps me to
visualize an idea uh that in the
simplest way possible.
>> Let me just say this is very cool that
we're doing this. This is like really
fun.
>> So sweet.
>> Oh
>> yeah, this is like really nice. Yeah,
this is our Odessa moment.
>> Yeah,
>> you were born in Odessa, too.
>> No, no, but one of my questions was like
um I don't know. This would be like if I
were in the audience, it would be more
like a comment on
>> versus a question.
>> Yeah, we're pretending to be a question.
Yeah, we're both uh our families are
both from countries that like mine from
Venezuela, yours from Ukraine where
people are always like, "Oh,
does that like like we didn't just
arrive
>> right
>> from Venezuela or Ukraine, so it's like
not
>> the same."
>> Yeah.
>> So, we have to like almost make them
feel be okay like it's okay. I mean, so
my family still lives in Venezuela, but
>> Okay. So, I asked you a question. Okay.
Um Oh,
>> that's back to you.
>> Okay, great.
>> Yeah. Well, yeah. No. Okay. Let me
reflect back what you said because this
is really interesting. So, a single shot
like So, it's like some kind of like uh
neuro stimulation. I don't know. Single
shot just enough. Uh I like this
deadline piece. That was really
interesting.
>> It's like not too much time, not not
like not 30 minutes. Although that that
can be why I'm late often is I'm like I
just I've almost got it. I just, you
know, I I'm a time optimist as you know
that I'm like I think I have it and then
but but a good good time is like two
hours and then a two I have to be
somewhere in two hours.
>> Interesting. Okay. So those are two
elements and then was there another to
for optimal creativity.
>> Oh a good night of sleep. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> The bad night of sleep plus plus too
much caffeine. Then you don't have any
you know you have no ideas. You just
have the like frantic piece of the
caffeine, the like mental energy.
>> Anything else? This is this is really
interesting. I think just the idea of
what is what creates creativity.
>> Just like experiences experiences and
thinking and and almost like thinking
too much about them.
>> Thinking I like that. Maybe
overthinking.
>> Yeah. Right. Yeah.
>> Back to you, Michelle Real.
>> Oh, to back to me to you. Yeah. Okay.
So, we did the thunder round. We did the
the the worst things to hear. Okay. And
the best sounds which your sons Yeah.
laugh.
>> Yeah.
>> Agreed. Do you Okay, we probably know
your favorite like product management
books. Do you have a favorite children's
book other than mine
>> to read to read to and also in April?
>> And also maybe you could you could do
more than one because you know they like
maybe there's one when you was a baby
>> like I feel like a chart is
>> and you never take my ideas because I
feel like you don't want to
>> I don't want to
>> you want it to be your ideas.
>> Yeah.
>> But I feel like there's a books you love
that are children's books and books your
kid loves.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And it's like I hate reading this
one, but he loves it, so we're going to
do it.
>> Yeah.
>> So, it's like he decides what his
favorite are. I love John Classen books.
They're so like beautiful and just like
sweet. So, those have been read.
>> Are they sweet?
>> They're like actually not sweet. You're
right. There's like death in all of
them.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. They all end in death.
>> Yeah. Like uh dude's new thing is like
he ate the bunny.
>> Is it the bear? The bear book.
>> Yeah.
>> Like he stole my hat. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah, like we start the book and
he's like, he ate the bunny. Where's the
bunny? Like in his belly.
>> But is Yeah. Is there any like overlap?
You think there's a favorite that that
that one is that's his favorite that you
now love because that you didn't love
initially?
>> Yeah. Like Dr. Seuss,
I think we similarly feel it's like way
too long as one cuz it's like 50 pages,
60 pages. Like words to say. It's a lot
of words and there's just like all these
madeup animals and
>> and like he's like what's a Zong?
>> Yeah.
>> Like there that's a Zong.
>> Yeah. They're you're like trying to
teach them real things in the world and
then he's like what was that tale of a
song? Like what?
>> Vipper from VIP. Yeah.
>> No. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I don't know. I don't like that.
Uh
>> but we like but we like reading them.
>> We've kind of Yeah. There's like a
rhythm.
>> Well, like anything in Spanish I read to
him obviously.
And Yeah. I mean anything you want to
say about like I don't know. Is there
any sort of like product
anything you've learned in product
management or like growth that has
translated to parenting?
>> You know, like product management is all
about influence and that's basically
parenting.
>> That's why he likes you better.
>> Why? Cuz I can influence. But you also
have to make him do stuff, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> They're like, you do have authority, you
know? Uh all the responsibility without
the authority, but you do have
authority. So it's easy. They have the
they feel like all the
>> authority. It's true. Just like nope,
here's you sit there.
>> Yeah. I feel like I see your product
management in that like you make him
like I should be the one making him a
chart, but you make you make him like
the like here's how if bedtime gets too
long, you're like here's how bedtime's
going to go. We're going to read you
three books. You get a star.
And then also I'm answering for you.
Sorry. Go
>> on.
>> Other things where it's like things
where it it's where I'm kind of like,
yeah, it just happens the way it's
happened. and you're like, "No, I read a
book on it. I read three books on it,
and this is how we're going to do it."
And and that's and it's going to work.
Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't
>> right. Yeah. I'm not like an intuition
guy. I'm just like, "What if the
smartest people figured out about this?"
This isn't the first time somebody has
tried to shorten bedtime,
>> right? Shorten bedtime, sleep through
the night,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. There's like Yeah. There's like
smart people that have tried this stuff
before.
>> Yeah. And can tell me what they've done.
>> Small eye roll.
And okay, so I guess this is I think my
last question for you and I don't know
if you want to answer it, but like I as
your wife uh of however many years like
10 still I don't think I know what
product management is. Do can you tell
me in five words?
>> That's hilarious. Okay, I will. My words
are impact,
collaboration,
judgment, alignment,
and this is a really good question. And
it's almost like the the order is like
how you think about product management.
Like, you know, it's like the order you
put them in. And what else? I'll just
say some stuff because it's really
interesting. Coordination.
>> I think that's five.
>> Organizing,
planning.
>> Okay. outcomes.
>> I have just tuned out.
>> There's so many like shut up. So boring.
And I'm just like, what should have I
said? That's what I'm going to think
about now. But it's Yeah, it's like a
crazy weird job. All these different
things. Yeah. Now I'm just like sniped.
I want to keep thinking.
>> Yeah. I keep
>> I'll give you my definition of product
management.
>> Yeah. You can't say mini CEO.
>> No, I'm no mini CEO. That's that's not
cool. Although I actually do think PM is
a mini CEO. Like I think people keep
saying you're not, but I think you are.
>> Yeah. You can't say like not a pro
project manager.
>> Not a project manager. That's right. I
think the way I describe it is uh your
job as a product manager is to deliver
business impact by prioritizing and
solving the most impactful business
problems.
Something like that. That's many words.
>> Yeah.
>> You're like this is why I never know
what it is. It's so boring. What are you
even talking about?
>> Cool.
>> Like this comes back to the mini co
thing. Just to close that thread. I feel
like the PM on the team is basically
should be thinking the way the CEO
thinks you know like their job is to
think what would the CEO do on this
specific product or feature because the
co's job is make the successful make
this business grow and so your job as a
PM is to kind of channel that what will
allow this team and product to help the
business be more successful.
>> Do you feel like you're doing that as as
uh the I guess you are
>> I'm everything you know like in my
current world right
>> you're editor-inchief too.
>> Editor-inchief. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. But I have a copy editor. I have
an editor. So, I've helped.
>> Oh, right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. People ask me what about product
management helped me do the job I do
now. I don't think there's anything to
be honest except just like things I was
already into, which is just being very
organized, having a very high bar for
quality, communicating. Like I think
communication maybe is just like how to
succinctly communicate points so that
people grasp them.
>> That's like,
>> whoa, look at this. We're the same.
introducing
>> the key is just communicating something
simply.
>> Wow.
Well, let me ask you one more question.
So, maybe it's a close. You wrote two
adult books. You now did a children's
book. Why the pivot to children's books?
Why did you decide to do a children's
book? I wanted to do a children's book
based on the first adult book because I
thought that charts are so they're like
a ton of early learning concepts put
together. So if you look at children's
books they're you know the themes are
often opposites,
colors, shapes, feelings. Um, and then I
just I was thinking like you can really
you can really teach a lot from a chart
and it's so simple. So it's a lot it's a
lot of opposites. It's big and small.
It's it's uh you've got going up and
going down. You've got overlapping
colors becoming another color. You've
got you can make a lot of feelings with
with charts. That's the second book in
the series that that I'm
>> It's coming out next year.
>> Yeah. But we but yeah I I finished it
but it's you know it still takes about a
year to to come out after that but yeah
it's it it was this like uh I wanted to
work on it in abstract like I had I had
the thought of wanting to work on it but
it didn't come until I started trying to
work on another adult book that I really
just had all these rhymes in my like I
had it was more like a cadence. I had
just like this like you know in my head
and and yeah I just tried it and it came
really quickly the first draft and yeah
and it it also yeah I always wanted to
make one because as as a little girl my
dad wanted me to he was a geoysicist he
wanted me to be strong at math he was
like you know cuz at the time it was
kind of like girls um weren't encouraged
necessarily to be good at math so he
from just like a young age he was always
showing me I did the same with our son
too like always showing him patterns
turns and like, oh, if you flip it, it's
like that. And it's just really fun for
me. And it's it's cool, too. Uh, writing
the first one with like our son growing
up, learning from experience, like I was
saying, like having the experiences of
him as a baby and like how I'm learning
how to teach him things. Then he gets a
little older and then that helped me
work on the the feelings. And I've also
learned how to speak to kids as well.
When I didn't have any, I was like, I
don't know what to say to you. and now
it feels more natural. And so I I I had
a a children's book that I tried to
write before I had kids. And for me,
that one wasn't as good. And so I feel
like I gained a little bit of just like
how to talk to child.
>> That's a really good like segue or not
segue, I don't know, connection to
something that we've talked about a few
times is the best stuff comes from like
actual experience. Like because you had
a children's book like you said that you
wrote before you had food and then it
wasn't good and now having the
experience you can actually make
something great.
>> Yeah. And then also like another thing I
thought about was just reading so many
children's books. People always say if
you want to write read and yeah we read
a lot we read still a lot of lot of
books and it um it just got me in that
zone too.
>> Yeah. It just makes me think about
something I think has been key to my
newsletter success is uh it is based on
like real life doing the thing like at
this point most of my posts are guest
posts where somebody sharing the best
thing they've learned in their career
like the one thing they want to share
which I love and it all comes from
something I focus a lot on is from
people on the ground doing the thing not
just floating in the clouds
pontificating
and that's the source of the best advice
is from practitioners doing the thing
for real you you know, not just
pontificating. It's just I think that's
a really good maybe one takeaway is just
the best stuff comes from doing the
thing and then sharing your advice
versus just thinking you know what
you're doing
>> and then
>> communicating it simply
>> simply and just like refining. I don't
even get into just all the work that
goes into refining.
>> And then yeah, we always you always talk
about like Yeah. Another thing I do is
like I often make it's it's stressful
because I make things and I I'm not sure
if they're good enough yet and I put
them to the side and then I come back
and and I might have an idea knowing
that it's already in my head. I might
have an idea like, "Oh yeah, that's
what's going to make that better." Or I
go to work on it again and some other
thing adds to it, but then as you've set
it aside, then you see something else.
You see something in the world like, "Oh
shoot, somebody beat me to that thing I
didn't ever do anything with." really
like. So that's cool to like to like
have something sitting like with with
maybe with your podcast and
>> Yeah. Well, let me ask you this and I'll
answer for my own myself. How many
iterations do you do on a chart on
average? Like how many times do you like
edit it and refine it?
>> Uh it depends. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> What's like the median?
>> At least five.
>> Okay. Like for me I think it's like
60.
>> I was going to say 100.
>> Okay. That's probably the real answer.
>> I can't even physically do that. It's
like I I need Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's just like
>> Well, what do you mean by
>> So, like when I write a newsletter post,
I go through it probably, let's say, 50
times making it better. Like I start
there's like something that's the
beginnings and then read through it and
add to it, read through it, add to it,
read through it, add to it, improve,
improve, improve, improve like 50 times
and then I have my editor go through it
and I have a copy editor go through it
and a designer help me.
>> You don't do that with your emails
though.
>> I No, I should.
>> I do do that with my emails, which it
should be. I shouldn't be doing that.
Like I read them over and over.
>> You do? Okay. I used to. I used to.
>> But no, I do. I Yeah.
>> Anyway.
>> Yeah.
>> Anything else?
>> Oh, I mean, yeah. Let me You plug Do you
want to plug?
>> Absolutely. Uh, when is it coming out?
>> April 7th.
>> April 7th. So, it's like a few weeks, I
think, from when this comes out.
Assuming this comes out.
>> Yeah.
>> We'll see how it turns out.
>> We're going to check it out.
>> We'll check it out. If you're seeing
this, we checked it out. It was a
success.
>> It was okay.
>> Uh, so Charts for Baby's coming out
April 7th.
>> April 7th. April 7th.
>> All your favorite retailers.
>> Yep. Local bookstores.
>> Local bookstores.
>> Wherever you buy your book.
>> What's the age range of kids?
>> It's 2 to four. It's called for babies.
I did do a a chart recently about like
how long is your baby a baby and and it
uh Yeah. It's like baby is this
infant is like one to two and then it's
like it's your baby infinity. Yeah. So
I've noticed like we still call him the
not really anymore like the baby.
>> Oh, for sure.
>> Yeah. Um, but he's like almost three and
uh, so yeah, it could be like I would
say zero to four or and uh, yeah, you
know what? Should I grab it?
>> Yeah, let's grab it. Let's just break
the frame.
>> I people on the recording hit but the
the first like the end paper is what
this is called. It shows all the like
things you can learn. Sizes, shapes,
lines, numbers, directions, feelings,
colors, mounts, sharing concepts,
relationships, opposites. Anyway, I'm
not good at self promotion clearly. So
I'll stop it. Yeah, it's uh it's it's a
lot of learning.
It's beautiful. It's hilarious. It's
clever. It's
>> early learning concept,
>> funny simply illustrated rhyming.
>> We'll link to it.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, congrats on releasing this book. I
know it was a lot of work.
>> Thanks. It was a lot of work. I did have
a lot of iterations.
>> The secret to success.
>> Yeah.
>> Iteration. Editing.
>> Editing. Okay. Spending more time is
what your old boss used to say.
>> Spend more time on it.
>> Spend more time,
>> Vlad. Yeah.
>> Anyway.
>> Okay. All good. We done.
Michelle, thank you so much for being
here.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> I'll ask you my typical questions that
ask at the end. How can where do people
find you online? How can listeners be
useful to you?
>> My website michelrial.com r i a l or I'm
also on Instagram. Not not too much
these days, but still a little bit. You
can look for the book Charts for Babies,
>> right?
>> Yeah. I don't know if when this will be
out. You can either pre-order it or
order it.
>> Great.
>> One of the Yeah.
>> parenthesis pre but order.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
Michelle, thanks for being here.
>> And I hope you like it and thank you.
Thanks for having me.
>> My pleasure.
>> I know you have a high bar.
>> Absolutely. You hit it.
>> Okay, great. And yeah, I hope you were
okay with the interview.
>> A+. It's going to It's going to do
numbers.
All right, let's get out of here. Okay,
bye everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Also, please consider
giving us a rating or leaving a review
as that really helps other listeners
find the podcast. You can find all past
episodes or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.